SPACEBATS

Team:
Alex Favaro
Jeremy Keeshin
Daniel Smith


How to Build and Run SPACEBATS

1. Download the code
2. Make sure you have the sfml libraries, Bullet physics engine, and Assimp.

This was build on both Mac and Ubuntu, and the Makefile works on both of those platforms.

3. make 
4. ./main


Controls

A/D: Left and Right
W/S: Up and Down

Space: Enter Boost Mode / Navigate To Next Screen

Advanced Features

Non-Photorealistic Rendering

For our medium to hard feature, we implemented non-photorealistic rendering using the technique presented in the paper which is linked on the Final Project page. This is a two-pass technique. The first pass writes the X, Y, and Z components of the scene's normals to the RGB components of a frame buffer object and writes the eye Z coordinate (compressed to [0, 1]) in the alpha component of the same object. The second pass uses a high pass filter on the normals and Z coordinates of the scene to detect edges which are drawn as black outlines. The second pass also uses a simplified lighting model to create sharp diffuse shadows and give the models a flat cartoony look. 


Motion Blur

Motion Blur was one of our advanced rendering features. We create motion blur in our MotionBlur class. In this class, we store
the last four frames, which are spaced out according to the SEPARATION parameter. We render all of the objects in the scren to
the stored framebuffers except for the spaceship, and then when we enter boost mode, we render the motion blur by averageing
out the stored framebuffers. By blurring the other objects but not the spaceship, we have tried to create the illusion of boosting.

Gameplay

SPACEBATS is a 3D interactive game where you fly through space in spaceship and try and navigate through gates. There are
many different levels with different objectives. You must try and go through the gates, avoid the asteroids, collect the 
health packs, get points, and keep your health. As you advance in the game you will reach a level of the SPACEMINES, which
will come at you and you must navigate and avoid them. Finally, when you reach the SPACEBATS, you must navigate through them.
If not in boost mode, you need to avoid the SPACEBATS, but if you are in boost mode, the SPACEBATS will change colors and you
can run into them and eat them. Travel through space and try and get the most points possible, while avoiding the evil SPACEBATS.

Level Manager

We have created a Level Manager and level system which can be used to extend our game and create new interesting levels. The 
Level Manager manages all of the Levels, and each level can be customized in several ways. A level knows its background image, its
splash screen introduction image, the number of objects it will feature and what type of object each is. It also has a list of 
landmark pairs. A landmark is a time-object pair, which means that this object will be emitted at this certain time. It also has
an option of whether or not to include gates.



